1. Jira Filter Creation (JQL Filter for Open Issues Assigned to the Team)

To track all open issues assigned to your team, follow these steps:
Create the JQL Filter:

    Navigate to Filters → View all filters → Create new filter.

    Enter the following JQL query:

    project = "Your Project Name" AND statusCategory != Done AND assignee in (user1, user2, user3)

        Replace "Your Project Name" with the actual project name.
        Add specific team members' usernames (or use assignee in membersOf("team-name") if using a group).

    Click Search to verify the results.

Save & Share the Filter:

    Click Save As, name the filter (e.g., "Open Issues for Our Team").
    Click Details → Edit Permissions.
    Share the filter with the team by selecting "Group" or specific users.

2. Jira Kanban Board Configuration

To create and configure a Kanban board, follow these steps:
Create a New Kanban Board:

    Navigate to Jira Software → Boards → Create Board.
    Choose Kanban Board → Create from an existing project or Create a new project.
    Select the relevant project and click Create Board.

Customize Columns in Kanban Board:

    Go to Board Settings → Columns.
    Modify columns to match your workflow (e.g., To Do, In Progress, In Review, Done).
    Drag and drop statuses to the appropriate columns.

Additional Configurations:

    Enable WIP (Work in Progress) limits to optimize workflow.
    Configure Swimlanes based on priority, assignee, or issue type.
    Use Quick Filters to filter issues based on priority, assignee, or labels.

3. Jira Issue Creation (Client-Reported Critical Issue)

To create and assign a critical issue in Jira:

    Click on Create in the top navigation bar.
    Select the correct Project.
    Choose Issue Type (e.g., Bug, Task).
    Enter a Summary and Description detailing the issue.
    Set Priority to "High" from the dropdown menu.
    Assign the issue to the relevant developer.
    Optionally, add Labels, Attachments, and Due Date.
    Click Create to log the issue.

The issue is now assigned, and the developer will be notified.
